 Farming gave rise to the Jiahu culture (7000 to 5800 BC). At Damaidi in Ningxia, 3,172 cliff carvings dating to 6000–5000 BC have been discovered
, "featuring 8,453 individual characters such as the sun, moon, stars, gods and scenes of hunting or grazing"
A bronze tomahawk with a blade of meteoric iron excavated near the city of Gaocheng in Shijiazhuang (now Hebei province) has been dated to the 14th century BC. For this reason, authors such as 
Liana Chua and Mark Elliott have used the term "Iron Age" by convention for the transitional period of c. 500 BC to 100 BC, roughly 
corresponding to the Warring States period of Chinese historiography
Excavations that overlap the alleged time period of the Xia indicate a type of culturally similar groupings of chiefdoms. 
Early markings from this period found on pottery and shells are thought to be ancestral to modern Chinese characters
Western scholars are often hesitant to associate settlements that are contemporaneous with the Anyang settlement with the Shang dynasty. For example, archaeological 
findings at Sanxingdui suggest a technologically advanced civilization culturally unlike Anyang. The evidence is inconclusive in proving how 
far the Shang realm extended from Anyang. The leading hypothesis is that Anyang, ruled by the same Shang in the official history, coexisted and 
traded with numerous other culturally diverse settlements in the area that is now referred to as China proper
In 2011, NIST, the US National Institute of Standards and Technology, defined cloud computing as “a
model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable
computing resources (e.g., networks, servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly
provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction
Cloud computing era started in 2006 when Amazon offered the Elastic Cloud Computing (EC2)
and the Simple Storage Service (S3), the first services provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS).
Five years later, in 2012, EC2 was used by businesses in 200 countries. S3 has surpassed two trillion
objects and routinely runs more than 1.1 million peak requests per second. The Elastic MapReduce
has launched 5.5 million clusters since the start of the service in May 2010 (ZDNet 2013). The range
of services offered by Cloud Service Providers (CSPs), and the number of cloud users have increased
dramatically during the last few years.
The cloud movement is not without skeptics and critics. The critics argue that cloud computing is
just a marketing ploy, that users may become dependent on proprietary systems, that the failure of a
large system such as the cloud could have significant consequences for a very large group of users who
depend on the cloud for their computing and storage needs. Security and privacy are major concerns
for cloud computing users.
